Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com
Hansel minutes.com. It's Hanselman. It's
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number 528. In this episode,
Scott talks with Rob Eisenberg
creator of the JavaScript framework.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hanselminutes today. I'm talking with
Rob Eisenberg, JavaScript programmer Xtrordinair,
and I've actually known you
for, for many years. We
bumped into each other at
conferences all the time. Yeah.
Yeah. When did you start
getting into JavaScript in earnest?
I think, you know, Charlie's
group specifically, it was probably
about 2010. Interestingly enough, I
was at mix that year
talking about MVVM the design
pattern model view view model,
and in the context of
XAML apps and I demo
a kind of a simple
framework and like 500 lines
of C-sharp and for building,
for building apps. And I
was walking away from this
conversation talking to a few
guys, Glen block was actually
one of them and they
said, wouldn't it be cool
if you could do this
HTML? And I thought that
it wouldn't be, that would
be sweet. And so I
actually, I actually started looking
around that time personally, deeply
into what was happening in
the world of JavaScript and
HTML. What were the real
big problems, which, you know,
at that time, they kind
of different from today, but,
and I started prototyping and
building stuff and, and I
had made a kind of
personal commitment to learn JavaScript
the way I had learned
C sharp and.net to actually
really learn the language, to
really learn browser API APIs,
to take time and to
dig that, and then do
a lot of research about
what was kind of going
on in the community and
who had solved what problems,
and then figure out how
to kind of put together
a solution for building apps
that would solve the real,
real problems that were going
on. And I was doing
XAML work, but I was
also doing a lot of
web work and I was
building a product of my
own at the time for
the web. And so I
kind of built then a
framework in the context of
my own application development called
and that kind of
showed up more officially, I
think, around 2012, but I'd
spent about two years behind
the scenes, you know, kind
of training myself and building
on that and building products
with that, and then working
with customers who wanted to
use when I was building.
And so that's kind of,
that's kind of the story
of how things kinda got
started for me, I guess
really I'd done JavaScript of
course, in the past, but
that was when I really
said, okay, let's treat this
like a real platform and
that's to learn it the
way I would learn a
real platform let's build tools
like it's a real platform
and, and see how far
we can take this. Wasn't
that a little intimidating though,
because it was starting as
I recall, to get a
little bit crowded and like
JavaScript, you know, people were
starting to rise up and
you could talk to seeing
the stars of JavaScript and
it was already a weird
and complicated kind of language
that people were looking at
at different angles to come
in and say, yeah, here's
a framework that I think
is a way to write
apps. It's a, it's a
declaration. It is. Yeah. I
mean, there is an aspect
of, of that, I guess,
but I think, you know,
in technology now it's sort
of, it's kind of an
ongoing thing. You're always kind
of coming into a preexisting
context and saying, well, here's
something new and different, and
here's why, you know, I
think that you should pay
attention to this or think
about this or consider this,
or try it out and
JavaScript, you know, as particular
interesting since the platform it's
when it, you know, when
JavaScript first emerged back in
the nineties, it was just
intended for something different. And
it's, it's an interesting scenario.
Cause people have built apps
on it, of course, very
large and complicated apps, but
the platform has evolved so
radically underneath everything as that's
been going on. Yeah. The
platform meaning browsers and JavaScript
support. Yeah, absolutely. And so
I think that because of
the nature of that ecosystem,
if you will, it means
that the tools and frameworks
and libraries actually can we'll
end up evolving a lot
faster or the trends that
ended up moving faster. Because
if you think say there's
something like.net. I mean, when
even 1.0 is released, you
know, C sharp was a
fairly full featured language, but
of course then if you
fast forward to several versions
later, there are many better
ways to do things, both
in the language and in
the base class libraries and
different things like this. But,
but, but even in say
C-sharp 1.0, it's a fairly
well established language in terms
of its capabilities, in terms
of things like how you
handled modularizing code and what
you could actually with it
just sort of out of
the box, right? But then
you take with JavaScript, it
kind of had a very
minimal base class library. If
you will, you know, very
minimal standard library missing a
lot of language features, you
know, no real modularization, a
lot of things that modern
languages have that just weren't
there. And then you say
you want to build a
library or platform on top
of this. And then a
few years later, all of
a sudden the platform or
the language itself gets infused
with all this stuff that
was missing core stuff like
modules and those kinds of
fundamental pieces having been missing
and then appearing really transforms.
Then the kind of things
that you can build on
top of the language and
how you would go about
building those. And because this
process is kind of ongoing,
ongoing for 20 years, about
with Java script, there's been
a lot of churn in
the frameworks. And so I
just kind of stepped into
that and said, well, we're
kind of at a, at
least with respect to a
really I, which, which, you
know, we want to talk
about a little bit, there's
been a transitional period recently
with JavaScript where there was
kind of a big upgrade
to the web, you know,
with 2015. And we went
from, it's kind of the
biggest upgrade to the language
almost since it was first
established, if you will, and
we've got, we've got modules,
we've got classes, we got
Lambdas. The whole process was
sort of reinvigorated with how
to evolve the language. And
then when you kind of
come and you look at
the platform, you know, the
web platform in terms of
these raw capabilities now being
there now, you can really
imagine a different way of
building apps and you can
start to see these things
that maybe you did on
native platforms before that were
extremely difficult or impossible on
the web. Now become easier,
are built in if you
will. And so it's at
that point where you can
say, okay, it's time for
kind of, you know, a
new entry into this space
that starts with the modern
web as a foundation, and
then says, okay, what can
we build on top of
this? And so that's kind
of where I, where I
kind of come in with
some of the stuff that
I was doing back then,
and as I was looking
forward into the future and
kind of planning, that's where
I wanted to kind of
stake ourselves, if you will,
is kind of in this
modern web and how can
we make modern web development
as good as, or better
than native and to end,
you know, development experience PR
performance, everything. So, So at
the time in 2010, 2011,
people were starting to do
things. People were trying to
solve problems in silos, individual
problems. They hadn't yet built
like major frameworks. They were
trying to do things like,
you know, templating where it's
like, you know, here's a
string and I need to
put some data in there.
Then templating kind of became
more about data binding. And
then there was two way
data binding, you know, deciding
how you're going to make
a call to the backend.
A lot of people use
jQuery and then there's two
or three or four different
ways. And now there's the
new fetch API APIs. You
know, things are continuing to,
to, to grow individually. People
would put together individual solutions,
they'd say, well, I'm gonna
use handlebars for my templating.
I'm gonna use jQuery for
my Dominic violation. I mean,
you use this, can we
use that when you look
at things like de Randall,
which then became Raylea or
angular, Ember, these are more
prescriptive aren't they, they are,
they are a declaration that
says here's a solution, a
style and architecture, a framework.
Is it almost like a
base class library for app
development on the web? Yeah,
there's a sense in which
it is that it's a
set of philosophies and approach
a methodology for building things.
It's a base class library.
And instead of, you know,
kind of core capabilities for
building for building apps, and
it definitely is more prescriptive.
And I think that just
comes out of the fact
that, you know, like I
was saying, things have evolved
so radically, even in the,
in the foundations that then
the libraries and everything on
top of that have evolved
so radically. And that has
just created such a huge
proliferation of things that for
the average developer kind of
going out there and saying,
okay, I want to build
an app. They're immediately shocked
by the breadth of, of
options. And so in a
really it comes along and
says, well, you know, here's
a solution. You can just
start with running and we've
gone and we solved, you
know, problems, X, Y, and
Z. And you can just
go and it'll work for
you. And we've solved the
problem of not only technically,
but philosophically, like here's how
you're gonna structure your app.
Here's how you're going to
put the pieces together. And
we've gone, we've done the
performance work and made sure
all the pieces integrate well,
you know, we're doing the
words work of, you know,
tracking the standards and making
sure we're kind of in
line with, you know, not
what's just happening now and
what's happening in the future.
And so I think you
kind of come into a
space like that into a
community like that. And you
get a lot of assistance,
a lot of help, not
again, not just from the
technical perspective, but prescription guidance,
community involvement, even frankly, just
learning about web standards, at
least with the really, because
we try and stay so
close to the standards. We,
part of what we do
when we teach people a
really is teach them the
overall web. You know, we
want them to understand that
because that's kind of the
longest lived knowledge that they're
going to have, you know,
compared to a framework, you
know, frameworks may stay around
for a good number of
years, but the web will
be around longer than any
particular framework. So we want
them to learn that. So
you kind of get all
those kinds of things. When
you, you know, you come
to pick one of these
frameworks and it helps to
alleviate the, the complexity of
having to weed through a
million different libraries and then
piece them together and then
keep them working together and,
and all these different things.
So there's still a lot
of options, even in the
framework space, but drastically kind
of reduces what you have
to worry about. And then
you just kind of pick
a path and usually, you
know, which framework you pick
is going to have that
guidance and, and all those
pieces that you can just
really hit the ground running
and, and build stuff. So
on the way to earn
Raylea de Randall was a,
another framework that was a
stepping stone. It was built
on other frameworks. It had
jQuery, it had knockout, it
had required JS at its
heart Raylea and forgive my
ignorance. But looking at the,
at the package, Jason, looking
at the code appears to
have fewer fundamental dependencies. Yes.
Which speaks to what you
just said, that it is
just JavaScript and it sits
on top of JavaScript as
opposed to sitting on top
of a stack of other
dependencies, Right? Yeah. With the
Randall, I kind of identified
a bunch of problems at
the time that needed to
be solved to build apps.
One was modularity. One was
like templating and binding. And
another one was just like
dealing with cross-browser issues. And
so instead of building everything
from scratch with Toronto, what
we said is we would
take J query to deal
with the cross-browser issues. We
would take knockout to deal
with binding and templating, and
then we would take required
JS to deal with the
modules. And we can put
that all together. And then
we kind of put a
thin layer on top of
it that solved the issue
of how to put those
pieces together the right way,
and then add some opinions
and some additional capabilities for
building apps. And then of
course that's has been, and
it still is very successful
and why they use, but
we hit kind of the
limits of what we could
do at the same time.
The web was evolving quite
a bit. And so we
said, you know, what could
we do if we actually
started from, from the raw
web, as I like to
call it, you know, with
pure JavaScript, with no browser
abstractions and just use modern
domino APS and modern JavaScript.
And re-imagined how these capabilities
could be implemented. And we
knew that we could solve
a bunch of problems and
our own implementation. So we
could gain a lot of
performance, flexibility, standards, compliance, all
kinds of stuff, and provide
a more solid trustable foundation
for people to build apps
on where they would kind
of trust that some third
party X dependency wasn't going
to change and break their
whole apps. You know, where
we could guarantee that the
framework would work. Cause we
kind of owned all the
code, basically. So the chain
of trust apply. It doesn't
apply to that, to their
project and your project and
then jQuery. And then the
thing that jQuery sits on
top of et cetera, et
cetera, but they do have
to trust you. I mean,
with all open source projects
they are buying into, But
we reduced the number of
people that the trust. And
we've also put ourselves in
a position where if there's
an issue, we absolutely can
address it as opposed to
being in some other library
that we then have to
go to the political process
of working with them and
wait for them to fix
it. You know, some other
library, we don't want some
other library to break our
platform, which then breaks X
number of our customers. We
want to be in a
position where we actually can
fix the problem. And so,
you know, that was, you
know, that was actually kind
of part of the problems
that we wanted to solve.
If you look at the
grid, the JavaScript space is
kind of crazy and you
see, you know, companies are
spending, spending millions and there's,
you know, hundreds of millions,
probably billions of dollars being
spent in software development on,
on, on top of the
web and the frameworks and
tools that everybody's using, some
of them are sort of
like stitched together with toothpicks
and duct tape, you know,
and it's, it's kind of
terrifying. I mean, there's been
recently some activity around MPM.
I'm sure you're aware of
the, you know, the one
issue where the guy pulled
his package and affected something
like 10,000 other packages. And
it was all crazy because
if you look at that
kind of the way that
the node ecosystem works, no
one JavaScript packages has a
dependency on another, which has
a dependency on another, which
has a dependency on another.
So there might be 10
levels, deep of dependencies for
some package that you're using
that you're not even aware
of. And if something happens,
you know, anywhere along that
line, you know, you can
have a problem. So we
wanted to, at least to
the degree that it was
reasonable for us, we wanted
to try and eliminate those
issues. That's why actually it
really itself, the core has
no third party dependencies. We
maintain our own polyfills. We
have our own binding engine,
our own templating engine. Everything
is owned by the relay
team. Of course it's all
completely open source, MIT licensed,
but we just reduce our
dependency so that we can
take responsibility for, you know,
our own issues basically, and
deal with them. And we're
doing the same kind of
stuff. We're building some new
tooling, some CLI tooling and
whatnot. And we're just being
careful not to have dependencies
on others so that we
can go to our customers
and say like, we can
guarantee that this works. And
if it doesn't, we can
actually, we can't actually fix
it, you know, and we
can do it in a
reasonable amount of time. You
know, let me, let me
ask you this though, when
people are getting started, if
someone is not steeped in
the JavaScript culture, or maybe
as an enterprise developer, who's
trying to make the right
decision for their, for their
company and is trying to
figure out what they're going
to pick. And they've got
a, you know, they've got
angular, which seems to have
the support of Google and
they've got Ember, which has
a lot of big personalities,
you know, behind it. Why,
how, how would they pick
one and feel like they
were like educated enough. Like
I don't have two years
to become a JavaScript expert
and then develop an opinion.
It's almost like picking a
religion and you know, you
believe your religion is the
best and else believes their
religions The best. Yeah. That's
a difficult choice for sure.
I think, well, the first
thing I think is realized
is that, you know, it's
not a zero sum game
when it comes to frameworks,
there are a lot of
good choices. I think where
people need to begin is
thinking about the non technical
aspects. In other words, think
about what is it that
your business is doing? What
kind of product are you
building? What is the culture
of your team? What is
the experience of your team?
And that can actually help
guide you because certain frameworks,
frameworks have personalities, if you
will. And they're going to
align better with different groups
of people or, you know,
in different contexts. And even
within the same company at
the same team, you might
find that a particular framework
or library is going to
work better for one product
or another. So I think
it actually comes down to
starting with really kind of
understanding the needs That you
have for them, The application
development that you're doing, understanding
the unique qualities of your
team and your company, and
then starting to see, even
from a high level, how
different technologies align with, with
those things. Some technologies are
going to get more in
your way, are going to
hinder you. And they may
have the same kind of
raw capabilities, but maybe the
way that they go about
presenting them or using them,
or prescribing them is going
to be more difficult for
a particular product or for
a particular team to work
with. So you can start
by just thinking in terms
of those things. The other
thing is, I would say
what I try and encourage
people is realize that you
can transfer all the knowledge
and experience you have from
whatever other platforms you've been
working on to the web.
So, you know, separation of
concerns is a great principle
to follow.net land. And so
it's also, it has anyone
land. Yeah, exactly. So I
would say, so I would
tell people is, look at,
look at the frameworks and,
and look to see, you
know, if you're looking at
their component model, because all
of these farmers have a
component model, well, how, how
well do they deal with
separation of concerns and the
design of their component? And
you can actually see it
and you can see it
if you, if you think
about looking for those kinds
of things. So I would
say, you know, The ways
that you evaluate, You know,
libraries and farmers and tools
and, you know, non JavaScript
land, you want to bring
those same types of evaluations
to JavaScript land in terms
of business things, in terms
of technical considerations, all these
aspects, you want to kind
of transfer to the JavaScript
realm and ask the same
sorts of questions. And that
can help you quite a
bit because I think what
happens is people are immediately
thrown off by some language
or platform that they just
don't know as well. And
they kind of revert back
to an earlier stage where
maybe they hadn't yet learned
the real crosscutting or more
general or universal principles. So
I have to be reminded
to come back to those
universal things that you've learned
and apply them to that
new context that you're investigating.
And that can help out
a lot too. And there's
open source projects where it's
just a random person out
there in the world, you
know, like with a Simpson's
avatar, I have no idea
who they are. One of
the things that's pretty extraordinary
about Raylea is that your
docs are just Holy crap
best in class. I mean,
they're just amazing build those
in Australia. Yeah. The ducks
are built in a really,
one of the things we
want to do is dog
food, our own framework publicly.
So as soon as we
launched beta, we had this
new version of the docs
that were implemented in a
really, and actually we're about
to launch a new version
two pretty soon, which is
going to make these look
pretty, pretty shameful. But really,
yeah. One of the things
that I love about the
docs and people should check
this out just because I
think it's a pattern that
is going to be stolen.
I'm planning on stealing it
and taking credit for it.
I know what you're going
to say. Go ahead. Yeah.
It's the part where the,
at the top of the
tree on the left side
where it's a list of
all of the topics, there's
a filter and it says
I am a web developer
or an architect or a
manager, and I love it
because there's like 16 high
level topics. And then if
you're a manager, you click
it and there's like two.
Yeah. It's almost like saying,
Oh, you don't know anything.
And it's like hide all
the hard stuff, but it's
such a brilliant A UI.
Thank you. Yeah. We had
this idea, actually. I've been
thinking about this for a
while and we have a
chief design officer at the
company we've been thinking about
this, but different people, you
know, come to your site
and they're interested in different
things. They care about different
things. And we, you know,
we're building technical projects. We
often think about the technical
docs, but you know, a
CTO or a manager is
going to make is probably
going to make a decision
on what gets used actually
a lot of times. And
they need Val valuable information
to help them. So, yeah.
So we kind of have
these, these different profiles, if
you will. And there's actually
more, we're going to have
a lot more of those
too, because we think we
want to help our community
too. So we're going to
have profiles. Like I am,
you know, integrating with other
technology or I am, I
want to contribute, you know,
It's nice because I liked
it. And I hope that
you, you maintain it as
a filter because it's not
a, it's not a, a
view in the sense of
you have to click them
all to see everything. We
assume that if you're a
web developer, you see everything,
but you hide the things
that are, that are outside
your scope. Yeah. Yeah. So
we're actually working on some
new stuff for this too,
where we'll actually have kind
of homepages for each of
these profiles that kind of
give a bit of descriptive
tax and different table of
context and some other resources.
And of course we're always
working on the content, expanding
it out as appropriate for
these different kind of vantage
points. But yeah, we, I
was, I really wanted something
like this and a number
of other people on the
team did too. So yeah,
I think that's, it's really
important that people be able
to kind of identify and
find what they're really looking
for. I, I had on
the show last week, naughty
act ball, talking about financing
and paying for and supporting
open source. And she talked
about the infrastructure of the
internet and not about like
the wires and the telecoms,
but you know, things like
JavaScript and things like the
browser that fundamentally make things
work. And, you know, here
we are in an environment
where there's like two, maybe
three browsers, you know, there's
two, maybe three JavaScript VMs.
We're gonna eventually get down
to just a couple of
JavaScript frameworks. How important do
you think it is to
have companies, corporations behind it?
Because the fact that Australia
is open source, but also
has a really rich consulting
group. And you have actually
consulting partners like enterprise partners,
like node in the enterprise
is kind of hard, but
node source is a company
that will give you enterprise
support. You know, they give
you someone told me that
they give you a throat
to choke. You know what
I mean? Where are we
going to yell at? Right.
So with an opensource project,
you know, you get issues
where someone's like, Oh, this
sucks. And it's like, well,
sorry, you probably shouldn't have
built your entire company around
it. The company has to
really be deeply entrenched in
open source, but with something
like a Orelia you can
treat it like a product
can't you? Yes. And that
was definitely part of what
we wanted to do that
I saw that was kind
of missing in the JavaScript
space is we really wanted
to build up a company
to support the open source,
to build the whole ecosystem
out, to have partners. And
so that people that wanted
to use it to build,
we could say like, yes,
here's our official resources, or
yes, we can put you,
you know, Oh, you need
a consultant where we've got
a core team member that
can work right with you.
Or we've got an official
partner that you can connect
with or, Oh, you need,
you want commercial support because
there's a lot of people
that are getting started that,
you know, they just want
kind of a safety net
because it's, they're treading into
waters that are unfamiliar with,
you know, so they just
want a safety net. Or
there are things like government
agencies that some of them
won't use open source unless
they can literally pay, there
are some agencies that they
have to purchase a commercial,
something, which is kind of,
it's kind of seems kind
of odd, but, but honestly
that's neat that we can,
we can solve that problem
for you. We can make,
you know, we can, we
can solve that problem pretty
easily. So there's, we wanted
to build up this whole
ecosystem. And in my mind
I looked like at a
company like Microsoft or Apple
who has a native platform,
that's very rich. And I
look at the ecosystem that's
built around that. And that's
kind of my vision for
really, we want to build
that same kind of fidelity
of an ecosystem if you
will, around a JavaScript platform.
So that all the things
that you would expect from
any native platform you'll find
there, you know, whether it's
great documentation consulting, commercial support,
you know, commercial products, partners,
training, and a whole bunch
of other stuff that we're
working on that, you know,
I can't really talk about,
but we've got a lot
of ideas. I think the
business side is really important
because like I was saying
earlier, you just think about
the millions and millions of
dollars that companies are spending
building apps on top of
these frameworks. And, you know,
there's, it's kind of like
building the house on the
sand, right. That the, the
foundation technically maybe pretty decent,
but there's nothing really behind
that to support it longterm
or to say, yes, well,
we're going to give you
an LTS support on this
and we're going to, we're
going to hold your hand
and help you move through
migrating across versions or, Oh,
you've got a critical bug.
Well, you know, you're a
commercial support customer, so we
can like issue you a
patch and we can do
it, you know, give you
some SLS around that. And
you know, all these kinds
of things. So a lot
of the infrastructure's just kind
of missing from the JavaScript
world. And we said, well,
we're going to build an
awesome platform from a technical
perspective, but we're also gonna
look at all these other
issues that kind of surround
that. And we're going to
make sure that we have
a plan to address them,
you know, and we're just
kind of rolling those out
in stages now, but I
think it's really important. It's
like, it's, it's, it's working
out pretty well. I mean,
you you've got a company
and you're like, it's the
real thing that was that
a big leap of faith
to say, we're going to
build a whole consulting and
training and team around, around
this open source project. Was
that a, like a leap
and how long did it
take before you were like,
yeah, this actually works. Yeah.
It's definitely a leap just
like starting any business. There's
zero revenue at the beginning
and you've got a lot
of time. You gotta put
in to get something, you
know, out the door, so
you can start turning that
around. And then you've got
to build up the community
around that to a certain
kind of critical mass, you
know, that, that things start
generating. So yeah, there's definitely
a leap about, you know,
it has to do with
that. It's, it's scary. It's
also super exciting at the
same time. It's just a,
it's just kind of a
mixture of many, many emotions
that are involved in that
process. What's been really exciting.
What there really is just
to see the community grow
and to see people join
in the effort. I mean,
we have, in the first
year we had over 300
contributors to the project. And
so now we've got about
300 and 260 or so.
So we there's a new
contributor, every one or two
days, something like that. So
to me that, that just,
it's exciting. It's really exciting
to see that. And we've
got a core team now
of that's male, about 20
people. It's a mixture of
developers and people that are
writing books and people that
are just kind of evangelizing
in the community and working
with them. They're all, they're
all great and really awesome
people. And you know, when
I started this project, I
kind of, I seeded the
first version of the code.
You know, I had kind
of an alpha product built
and then the team came
on board. And now what
really is today is absolutely
something that I could not
have accomplished on my own.
We've got people doing stuff
on the team that are
just doing incredible work, and
it's really exciting to, to
just see the, you know,
the inception of it and
then see it grow and
see the community grow and
see people getting involved and
see the business take flight
and to see people start
to prosper, you know, individual
people and companies and, and
to see people would just
be successful building awesome things.
And I mean, it's really,
it's really cool when somebody
hops in our chat room
and there's just like post
like a YouTube video. It's
like with some awesome music
behind it. And it's like,
here's the app we built
in like one week, you
know, or we got one
of our core team members
that has company has put
seven apps in production in
the last year, but with
a really, really big company
doing really cool stuff. And
they Hilson, you know, screenshots
of like, here's our launch
party, you know, and that
kind of stuff, it gets
you really pumped. And you
know, I I'm building a
business, but there's also the
other aspect of it for
me, which is that I've
been doing open source for
over 10 years. And so
it's not, it's not like
it's about the money. Obviously
we have to, we have
to survive. I have a
wife have kids. We need
to pay the bills. I'm
not trying to get rich.
I like to help people
though. I like building solutions.
I try to transfer my
knowledge and experience and building
software into these frameworks to
help other people be successful.
So I just get a
ton out of the whole
process of seeing people like
I, like I said, I've
seen people prosper, seeing companies
prosper by using our technology
and seeing what they've done
with it. So that's totally
exciting. And that's all kind
of around this whole process
of starting with the idea
of the framework, business, bringing
those things together, jumping out
there, taking that risk and
then just kind of going
with it and encouraging people,
getting the community involved and
just watching it kind of
bloom. This has been really,
Let me ask you, let
me ask you one question
in conclusion, and there was
a time when you worked
on angular for 10 months
and you thought that maybe
you could bring some of
the, your, your learnings from,
to Randall to angular and
make that, make that something
else, but it didn't work
out. You went back and
continued to work on, on
your project. Yes. Can you,
can you briefly give us
a sense of, you know,
was that, was that good
time? Was that wasted time?
Was that just a, you
know, architectural disagreements? It was
so many things and I
can't, you know, I have
to be careful how I
talk about this. Cause some
things I just, I can't
even talk about really from
a legal perspective and in
a sense, from an emotional
perspective, because for me, the
things I've built and the
opensource I've done, you know,
is very important to me.
And I have a vision
I've always had a vision
for, you know, what I
want to build and, and
trying to help people. So,
you know, I'm not going
to call that wasted time.
I think that any experience
in life, you can, you
should try and draw something
out of. I definitely identified
things that I definitely identified
problems in the JavaScript ecosystem
and in the framework space
that I hadn't thought as
clearly about before that experience
and that, that does happen
to do with some of
the business side of things,
which are where I realized
that things were lacking or
where things weren't really being
addressed. So I'm not, I
won't say it was wasted
time at all. I definitely
try to draw a lot
out of that experience. And
when I came out of
that, I was in a
sense, I had a lot
of emotions, of course, coming
out of that, but in
one way, I was invigorated
to, or at least pumped
to work on my own
stuff again, because I knew
for a certainty that I
had a very clear vision
of what needed to be
built and that I felt
very sure about the problems
that need to be addressed.
And maybe I knew the
portion of that before, but
I had a certain amount
of confidence coming out of
that as well, that I
had a deeper understanding and
confidence about what needed to
happen, I guess. And that's
pretty, that's valuable on its
own. Of course, especially kick-starting
a new company, you know,
you kinda, you kind of
have to be in that
frame of mind from the
get go or else there's,
you know, you have no
hope of really succeeding. Very
cool. Well, we appreciate you.
And we appreciate what you
do to the community. And
really is a, is a
great framework. People should explore.
It's a U R E
L I e.io on the
homepage there, there's about a
30 minute video. It's very
technical. It's a walkthrough from
start to beginning, start to
finish. It tells you exactly
what you need to know.
And like I said, the
docs are something to aspire
to looking forward to seeing
what you do with the
next docs. And I appreciate
you talking with me today.
My pleasure. Thank you. This
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again next week.